# PYTHON STOCK PERFORMANCE ANALYZER
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T-R8qu2IHCY>
#### Description:

## Quickstart:

After running the project.py file, the user will be prompted to type a yfinance ticker (for example: SPY, TSLA, GOOG). If the given ticker is valid, the program will prompt the user for the initial capital to simulate the investment and will print on the terminal important investment performance metrics (in detail below).

Ps.: In case the user inputs a ticker that is not available at yfinance or a value for the initial capital that is not valid, the program will keep prompting him for valid values.


## About the project: 💻

This project calculate important perfomance metrics for different stocks, indices and other investment instruments using data from yFinance.
The project uses the libraries Pandas, yFinance, QuantStats and Pytest.

**To generate the metrics were used 4 functions:**

- **check_ticker()**:

The function **check_ticker(ticker)** receives the ticker from the user and returns True if the ticker is a valid yfinance ticker.

- **check_capital()**:

The function **check_capital(initial_capital)** receives a value for the initial investing capital from the user and returns True if the capital is a number > 0.

- **get_data()**:

The function **get_data(ticker, initial_capital)** receives a string with a stock ticker and the initial capital passed by the user. It returns a pandas dataframe with OHLC data as well as returns and the investment equity.

- **metrics()**:

The function **metrics(df)** receives a pandas dataframe with returns and returns a dictionary with multiple investment performance metrics:

1- START DATE: Saves the first trading day in the sample
2- END DATE: Saves the last trading day in the sample
3- TOTAL PROFIT: Calculates the total profit in currency generated by the investment
4- TOTAL RETURN: Calculates the percent return generated by the investment
5- CAGR: Calculates the Compound Annual Growth Rate
6- MAXIMUM DRAWDOWN: Calculates the maximum peak-to-valley drawdown that the investment suffered
7- SHARPE RATIO: Calculates the sharpe ratio of the investment


Thank you! 👋
